should you go on this person's podcast
is this someone you might want to do an
Instagram or YouTube collab with how do
you know who is legit who's a phony
who's a fraudster who is possibly going
to damage your reputation and who's
legitimately someone who could maybe
help your career help your
business hey my name is shelen Johnson
thanks so much for joining me here on
build your tribe this is going to be
kind of an unconventional untypical
episode for us but it's bugging me and I
don't know what number I am on the
anagram but I really can't stand when
people lie it bugs me and there's so
much of this going on right now and the
reason why it bothers me is because
there are so many people out there who
are trying to grow their business the
right way who frankly have to figure out
how to balance time and money and who
they're going to network with and where
are they going to spend their time and
everything we do as entrepreneurs is
because we want more freedom and so it
really doesn't sit well with me that
there's so many people involved in some
of the practices I'm going to blow the
whistle on these people and I'm going to
help you to identify who's doing this
and if you're someone who has engaged in
some of these practices I I hope that
what I'm about to explain to you will
change your mind open up your eyes and
you'll realize like oh this is probably
not the right way to do things and if
you're watching this on
YouTube it's happening everywhere it's
happening on Instagram on Tik Tok
YouTube LinkedIn everywhere and that is
fake clout it is people who have paid
for their followers and let me break
down what this looks like okay so it is
someone who has paid for let's say a
million seems to be like the big number
right so they'll have paid for a million
subscribers here on YouTube before we
everyone kind of knew that you could buy
followers somebody who was really
notable like ju just think of the
biggest names in whatever space whether
it's marketing or business you name it
social media there's some big names out
there right like can you imagine how
exciting it would be to land a Gary
vaynerchuk or a an Alex Heros whoever it
is well these individuals were smart
enough to go like oh you know what I'm
going to do I'm going to reach out to
him or her whoever that is I've got a
million followers that person's team is
going to look and see that I've got a
million followers they're going to vet
this opportunity and I'm going to get
that big fish on my show so they land
let's say one or two of these big names
with these fake followers right and now
what they can do is they can send people
like you an email and say hey I'd love
to feature you on my podcast where we've
had people like and then they list off
all the big names and you're looking at
these names and you're like holy cow
that's amazing and they want me on now
in some instances they're just doing
this because they want great guests but
I still think it's dishonest because a
you don't have the number of followers
you have I mean you might might have
those followers but they're not truly
followers they're not real followers and
you might be getting engagement but more
often than not it's fake engagement it's
phony comments it's comments you've paid
for or you've paid to be in a an
engagement pod so people are commenting
but it they're not real customers right
and so you've tricked somebody into
thinking that they're investing their
time with you because it's going to give
them a return on their investment but
it's not because it's fake it's phony
it's a lie it's
deceptive and I just can't think of
anything more important than your
reputation and there's so many people
doing this so much so and then they tell
their friends about it and now there's
this huge group of Bros and women too
coaches and the the blue checks and have
you ever like stumbled across somebody's
YouTube channel and thought to yourself
like how do they have so many
subscribers well take a look you can use
programs some which I will feature Below
in my show notes like social blade
there's a couple of others that like
right now off the top of my head I can't
think of the names of them but I will
use them to verify when I'm invited on
to one of these shows if in fact it's
legit and if I had a dollar for every
time I check out one of these people
who's you know so excited to have me on
their show and they're they're always
with the fan cars and the amazing
graphics and the amazing social media
and they're they're such a brand and
it's all Bs it's BS and it kills me how
many people they've tricked it's fraud
in my opinion I just think it's
fraudulent because you're you're not
being honest about what the exchange is
so if somebody's going to fly to do your
podcast and they're going to put
themselves up and they're going to you
know lose however many hours that they
could normally be working on their
business or spending time with their
family because you're giving them this
opportunity but it's not an opportunity
it's phony and the latest scam is now
you're going to get an email from
somebody like uh say a Ty Lopez and
allegedly I'll say this is an alleged
scam um and maybe maybe you guys don't
see it as a scam maybe it's just the way
he's doing business but you will get an
email saying you know we'd like to have
you featured on our show you just need
to fill this application you felt the
application and then you find out that
there are tears of how much you have to
pay and Tai is just one of many people
like Mike Sean Kelly who's also doing
this who's also I mean take a look at
his YouTube I I I know I'm calling
people out publicly but take a look at
these people's subscribers take a look
at how many views they're getting and
yeah occasionally they're going to get a
show that gets decent views because
occasionally
videos do just pop off on YouTube but if
you're looking at how many comments
there are if you're looking at what's
really happening on the channel you'll
realize that it's not what you think it
is and so many of the guests you're
seeing being featured over and over and
over those are people that are paying to
be on the show and they're paying to be
on the show because they got excited to
get on the show because of these hosts
using somebody else's
name and then they use that person's
like they're like oh hey look look who
we had on the show right and you're like
oh that's great so then you get all
excited about going on the show too and
you think to yourself well gosh I guess
this is just what Fillin the blank big
name must have done if he was also on
the show no it's the new Racket and I
don't have any problem with people
charging to be on a podcast I get it
because if you're giving them a platform
it's like advertising but you're lying
about the platform and that's where I
have a real problem verify that you have
those followers verify that your
comments are real and for those of you
who are trying to for yourself determine
like if you want to interact with
somebody look closely here are some
telltale signs if it's on Instagram and
they're buying their likes their likes
will basically stay at about the same
for every post when someone has
authentic real engagement they're going
to have a post that has
like 300 likes and then one that has
15,000 and then one that has 10,000 and
then one that has like
2,000 they're going to be all over the
place because that's how the real
algorithm works but when someone's
buying their likes it'll be like
5,600
5,700 5,900 no
impossible then take a look at their
comments right away like the second this
person posts a lot of times all the
likes will rack up and uhoh the comments
haven't that that bot hasn't been
triggered so they'll have like 6,000
likes and two comments and you're like
the math isn't
mathing and then once a comment start to
show up it can be like a photo of this
person next to their car and the
comments are like great real
inspirational keep going
wow unbelievable high fives it's they're
so dumb they're generic comments and
you'll notice a lot of those people
couple different things they're either
Bots or they are people who are in a
paid engagement pod so these are a huge
group of people who it's like whenever
someone else in that pod posts they are
to leave a quick
comment and so the comments will be from
other people who also have huge
followings and these same numbers that
don't add up with the same dumb comments
under their posts it's such a rat like
why none of these people are ever going
to be your customers all you're doing is
and and and people aren't going to call
you out underneath your
post but a lot of us know it's bogus and
it makes you look like a fool it makes
you look like you're desperate it makes
you look really inauthentic and
untrustworthy why would I trust someone
who lies about all like are you also
lying about your success are you lying
about your credibility are you lying
about the people that you've helped are
you lying like how if you're just this
blatant about things how can you trust
someone who is doing that I think it's a
um very common practice so much so that
you know people get together in their
masterminds and their groups and they're
like hey you should do this too oh hook
me up oh are you kidding like oh no this
guy can get you 500,000 real followers I
always say real followers
whatever don't buy any of that none of
it do it the oldfashioned way it's not
even the old fashioned way it's the
right way it's a legitimate way and
listen I remember when we're talking
like 12 years ago when people were
saying like oh my gosh you can actually
buy followers who are into fitness these
are like real Fitness follows from an
account that's closed I looked into that
are you kidding absolutely so like 12
years ago I did buy I don't know I think
back then it was probably like 5,000
followers and they it was from a stolen
account and back then we didn't know but
now you
know anyone who has an account over
about a 100,000
it's going to have between 15 to
20,000 fake followers so I want to
caution you if you are like wait wait I
have all these Bots that are following
me and I didn't buy them that's normal
you don't need to block those people or
uh there's nothing you can do really if
you didn't buy those followers Bots just
follow big accounts because they have
different scams that they're trying to
run on your followers they're trying to
get your followers to notice them
they're trying to get you to notice them
and follow them they're it's just it's a
tactic they're trying to follow you so
that you'll have a conversation with
them in their DM so we all get bot
bot bot followers we all get some fake
accounts that follow us and I'm sure
you've had this happen where you wake up
one day and you're like what what who
are all these people these all seem like
fake people they probably are and
there's nothing you can do about that
but Instagram regularly cleans those out
so if you notice if you look at your
follower account you'll see certain days
you're like oh wow I lost a lot of
followers today don't ever freak out
about that because Instagram is
constantly cleaning house they're
constantly getting rid of inactive
accounts accounts that they suspect are
engaged in bot activity and so you're
regularly going to be losing those fake
followers and so there's nothing you can
do about it and the right thing to do is
to just keep doing what you're doing and
know that it you're we're all going to
get these kind of inconsistent results
and it's a much better thing to have
intact is your your credibility I mean
your trust is
everything and I hope that more people
start taking action and calling these
people out for what they're doing I hope
this doesn't continue to be a trend
because it's really dishonest and I
think you can tell how I feel about it
anyways I'd love to know what do you
think because I I pulled my Instagram
followers and I I would say probably
like 10% of them are like well if it's
not hurting anybody I'm like but it is
it is hurting people it is when we're
talking about business yeah it is it's
but I don't know that's my opinion
what's yours do me a favor share this
episode with anyone you know who is in
our industry who has a podcast who um
maybe does events speaks on stages does
collabs with other people networking
share this with them because we really
do need to kind of spread the awareness
so that everybody knows how to spot
these fakes and ponies and put some
pressure some social pressure on people
to stop doing it it's not cute it's not
authentic it's it's not a good look hey
and before you go just double check for
me and make sure that you're subscribed
here on build your tribe this is my
business Channel Brock and I do episodes
here on YouTube you can listen to us on
the Apple podcast Spotify wherever you
listen to your podcast but thank you so
much for making sure that you are
subscribed it's my goal to be brief to
be bright to make it fun um I know it
was a little sassy today but now we're
done see you soon yeah
[Music]